# FRESH - skincareAPP---2023
congressional app challenge - Vinaya Ayinampudi and Diane Lee

The purpose of FRESH is to help the user gain understanding on their skin type and receive advice on how to take care and maintain healthy skin care to achieve a fresh face. FRESH is designed to educate people, more specifically those who want to take better care of their skin, to know what skin type you have and what products can help you in achieving that, and to have more confidence in yourself. This app will help you prevent making wrong skin care choices and will give you the knowledge to be able to take care of yourself. It is more efficient and cost friendly than going to a dermatologist.

Many people struggle due to self confidence, and the main reason for that is physical appearance. In today's society the beauty standards are unrealistic and this has people resorting to products such as plastic surgery or makeup. Instead of this, we are trying to persuade users to take care of the skin they have first, even if they wear makeup or do something harmful for the skin, they will know how to take care of it. I myself have struggled with acne during the pandemic (coronavirus) and I was looking for various ways on how I can take care of my skin. Of course I didn't have this app, but I wish I did because it includes every product that really works miracles on the skin. My partner, Diane Lee is the skin care expert, she has been doing skincare and learning about it from the age of 5! She got inspired from her mom who has started off by forcing her to have a skin care routine, but over the years Diane has realized that this has really helped her, now that she knows exactly what works for her skin and she doesn't have to worry about it. Together we inspire to spread our knowledge and passion!

During the programming process, we first faced difficulty on how we would have the questions lead to the results. We created multiple wireframes and flowcharts but we were missing something. Once we learned about functions and variables, we found out that we could have the variable store the answer choice of the user, and depending on what that variable is, we used an if statement to say "If yes is the answer for the first question, and no is the answer for the second, and yes is the answer for the third; set screen "results"." In order to do this we had to come up with every possible combination of answers, which we did, and once we created the flowchart with the answer combinations, we got coding and now the results screen is set based on the users answer pattern! 

When you first open our app, it’ll direct you to our startup page where you click the start button, leading you to create your username. After creating your username, it takes you to the homescreen where you can either take the skincare quiz, see the different skin types, and products. 

When taking the skin care quiz, all you have to do is answer the three questions with the yes or no options. In order to code this portion, we created a wireframe including every possible combination of what the user could choose. Once you finish the quiz and click on the results button, it takes you to the screen which correlates with your results which vary depending on the user's input. Once you get your results, there are steps on how you can take care and improve your skin health. After viewing the steps you can click the next button to view the products recommended specific to your skin type. 

Another option of the homescreen is the skin types button, which shows you the three main skin types and once you click next, it’ll show you the main steps to a skincare routine which we found by researching the most effective way on how to properly layer your products. The last option of the home screen is the products button, which will lead you to the screen including the most essential skincare products which are compatible with all skin types. For example, when you click on cleansers, it uses the onEvent function to take you to setScreen cleanser products. From there on, you can go back, and from back, you can return to the homescreen. 


